Solute example 1 simulates 250 days of injection of warm (40°C) waste water at a
rate of 800 m3/d through a well in an unconfined aquifer. Radial coordinates are
used, and the 10-m-long well screen is located on the left side of the simulated
domain at a depth interval of 40 to 50 m. The geologic material consists of a clay
unit overlain by fine sand. The initial water table is at a height of 10 m above the
top of the clay; initial temperatures are uniformly set to 12°C. A cation exchanger
is distributed uniformly throughout the domain, and is initially in equilibrium with
a water that contains 100 mg/L concentrations of sodium (Na) and calcium (Ca) with
the charge balanced by chloride. The water injected from the well is a 100 mg/L
potassium (K) solution, which is charge balanced with bromide (Br). The exchange
constants (log k) for Na, Ca, and K are equal at 25 °C, and only the log k for Ca
has been defined with a strong temperature dependence, such that exchanged Ca is
preferred relative to dissolved Ca as temperature increases.

Simulation results show the spread of the heat plume from the well after 250 days of
injection. The shape of the plume lacks symmetry because of the sharp contrast in
hydraulic properties of the sand relative to the clay; most of the injected water
flows through the sand. The leading edge of the conservative Br plume extends to
about 200 m from the injection well in a relatively narrow band of the sand; Br
progresses to a much lesser extent in the clay. K has progressed to a more limited
extent relative to Br because of retardation by the exchange reactions. K removes Na
from the exchanger, and Na concentration in the solution is diminished in a zone
near the well; however, the temperature effect of the log k for Ca shifts the
equilibrium in the top edge of the plume, such that Na concentration is higher in
solution. Ca demonstrates the same absence as Na in the zone where K has
infiltrated, but as the temperature re-equilibration in the top edge of the plume
increases Na dissolved concentration, Ca concentration decreases.
